"To do this, now we have to think of what is really demons. What is a demon? And that, in a minute,
maybe somebody could think, 'Oh, this is just a superficial, superficial of the spiritual or the
Dharma.' Superficial.
But what demon here means has many meanings. Demon means obstacles. Whether we have the belief or
not, whether we have the spiritual or not, whether we have the Dharma or not, every living being
goes through some degree of obstacles. Nobody can deny that.
This is what obstacles. Obstacles can, maybe we can say, crisis, different crises that we go
through. Not just only the beginning of the practices or beginning of our lives, but even during
the lives, during the journey of the spirituals, these obstacles come.
Christ comes, spiritual crisis, financial crisis, life crisis, failure crisis. I mean that we know
all obstacles. In the Buddha teaching, many major obstacles or in Christianity, there are many,
whether we use the terminology as crisis or the obstacles or the hindrance, but truly, everybody
experiences.
We will go through them. Therefore, we have to prepare that. Not just ignore and put on sight and
just blend it ourselves. We have to prepare. That is what the teaching is taught.
Teaching is done. We have to make sure that we are strong and firm and challenge that we will also
get. When you enter the Dharma practice, Dharma means it's not something that immediately we become
in a lala lens, or everything will be all great.
Here my day is so beautiful, everything is going my way, ho ho. Some will just say that. Maybe that
could be a few days, a few times, but not all the way. I mean that we know.
Even the great masters, when you read the life story of the Buddha, Shakta Muni, he is totally in
like beings. He experiences obstacles, hindrance, but obstacles not become obstacles, not become
crisis, overcome, went through.
That's what these great beings are known as, the warriors. They defeat that. Not defeated by anger
and jealousy, hate and thought, but defeated by understanding nature itself.
They harmonize that. Totally harmonize that. That is what we should do. This is what this teaching
means.
Many times, this is what, for example, in the Buddha teaching, this is, of course, again, where
they are teaching, in another teaching.
In the Buddha teaching, every, every, like, you heard five brumis, sorry, five parts. Every part,
there is some obstacle comes.
Every brumis, there is obstacle comes. Not just every brumis, but even during the year-end brumis,
such a high level that there is obstacle comes. Obstacles are not necessarily bad. Obstacles are
clear way.
You are cleansing. You are cleaning your chimneys. You are cleaning, we are cleaning our chimneys.
We are cleaning our separate sustenance. We are cleaning, really.
It's nothing bad. It's good. It's coming. For that reason, great master, master Tomi Zanggu said,
in one of his teachings, he said, "How wonderful are these obstacles. Wonderful that I am cleaning
now. I am cleaning. Great.
If obstacle didn't come, I am also how wonderful. I can move forward." So it's open. It's not just
a restricted attitude that you set and like to be set by ego, cleanse, egos.
We've been doing that forever. Long time ago, the Buddha teaching, from the biggest times, times,
every time we like to be set in this, that way, but never achieved.
We always punish it by hope and fear, and that is playing ping pong ball, us. We've been the pong p
ong ball, ourself. Ourself, we've become pong pong ball.
Hope and fear are playing games. That's what we do. Today, we like to come out of this. We like to
move forward that. Hope and fear become as favorable support for our understanding of the way of
the path of realization.
And for those reasons, the Buddha teachings are so meticulous, so designed perfectly so that we
cannot go any place.
For example, highways, like I-95, every corner, every place, there is science. It tells how much
speed you do, what is happening, what is happening.
It's happening pretty soon, and that's what the old teaching is designed. It's our journey, journey
.
When we take this journey, the voyage, voyages, it's not always just like, like, like as smooth,
there is traffic games.
There is speed, what's called, there is traffic games and traffic lights, traffic lights.
And there is also thunderous, and as well as also secular, or hurricanes, so forth.
You can see, but what it means, we are moving forward. We are moving forward.
In that way, these obstacles in the Buddha teaching, generally, what, and of course, there is a
kind of summarize there, what the Buddha teaching says, there is four obstacles, four demons.
Four demons. Those are known as the demon of aggregates, demon of emotions, the demon of death,
and the demon of distractions. These are the four demons.
They are not demon as a kind of individual standing. They, we use them, they are not demon, as
medicines.
Every medicine is medicines, but if we use our dosage, then medicine, not medicine, medicine
becomes poison, that we all know.
So that means, we have to be smart, balance, and move forward.
Demon of aggregates, that means, these aggregates also can become obstacles.
What are our aggregates? Our poem aggregates.
Poem means, if we take this personally, as our body, body aggregates.
Body, this can become obstacles to you. Therefore, we have to take care of this body.
It didn't mean, body is bad, we have to neglect it, or throw this, when body crash comes, we say,
oh, body is not good, I'm going to leave that.
We cannot. Body is so important, so speaking.
Then what is another aggregates? Feelings, feeling aggregates. Feeling is also very good,
but however, we again use the wrong way and too sensitive way, where feeling can be again obstacles
.
That's what means. It's all how Buddha taught, so careful, so smart, it's not just careful, exactly
where things are.
Things can turn out, this is not Buddhism, Dharma, Buddhist talking, we can experience ourself, it
's true.
Feeling can be also obstacles. And the next one is what?
Next one is what? What? Perception? Yeah, perception. Perception aggregates.
Perception aggregates again, it didn't mean perception is bad, but perception means, again, we
attach it too much.
Perception again is known as, Dharma text is known as, Dushy. Dushy means is perception concept,
yeah, I think perception must be, but it also means idea.
It's idea. Idea, we have so many ideas. Idea can be very good.
But many times, idea can become so hindrance, so obstacles. That also means believing.
Believing generally is good, but again, believing sometimes becomes so disturbances, disturbance to
ourself, to the others.
So, therefore, watch out within perceptions. And the next one is what? Conservation.
Conservation means, again, now, mental states. Mental states.
We have to again, mental state means, conception aggregate is nothing also bad.
Generally, if we become too much like with mental activities, mental things, then it becomes again,
obstacle, then demon.
That's what is named demons. Then, last aggregate, among the five aggregates, is consciousness.
Consciousness is the source of all these aggregates.
If we didn't take care, again, right way, consciousness is simple way, you can say, mind.
Again, it can be obstacle. Therefore, watch out. Careful. Be balanced.
That is what the teacher means.
Among those are the really hard aggregates.